Inflation Explained in One Minute (Transcrição) 1 – Let’s assume your monthly income were to somehow double. Congratulations! You can now, for the most part, afford to buy two times more stuff. But what if the monthly income of everyone else were to also double? 2 – Well, in that case, you’d no longer be able to buy 2 times more stuff, because since everyone else also earns 2 times more, there would be 2 times more money chasing roughly the same number of goods. Let’s take things one step further. 3 – What if your income doubles but the income of everyone else triples? In that case, you’d actually become poor. Why? Because making 2 times more money is not enough to keep up with everyone else, who now makes 3 times more. 4 – If there is an overall increase in the price of goods and services of x% this year, you have to earn at least x% more than last year to avoid becoming poor in real terms. History makes the effects of inflation crystal clear. 5 – Today, each a dollar buys you approximately 39 times less potatoes than 100 years ago. Or 20 times less coffee, 24 times less bread, and so on.


The Great Depression Explained in One Minute (Transcrição) 1 – The Great Depression was a dramatic, worldwide economic calamity which started in 1929 and lasted until the late 30s. Most people believe it began with the U.S. stock market collapse of October 1929. By 1932, U.S. stocks were only worth 20% of what they were prior to the crisis, and 1 year later, almost half of all Unites States banks had failed. 2 – By 1935, roughly 750,000 farms had been lost to bankruptcy or distressed sales. European countries, debilitated by the debt they had accumulated due to World War 1, dealt with the severe depression, and a sovereign debt crisis ultimately emerged. 3 – In Germany, for example, unemployment reached 25% and among other things, this economic disaster led to Hitler’s Nazi party becoming the top political actor after the 1932 elections. Worldwide trade was devastated by the Great Depression, with countries engaging in so-called trade wars by limiting imports, and by the same year 1932, global trade crashed to half of the pre-crisis volume. 4 – Unfortunately, trade wars degenerated into an actual armed conflict which caused over 60 million deaths – World War 2. Make no mistake, most wars have been caused by economic factors to a very large degree. Let’s learn from the past and not let this happen again.


Why Do India And China Have So Many People? (Transcrição) 1 – Hi, this is Kate from MinuteEarth. India and China together are home to over 2.7 billion people. That’s as many humans as in the next 20 most populous countries combined, or in the whole other 170 countries in the world. 2 – Over the last 300 years, India and China each added more than a billion people to their populations — way more than any other country. But they have actually been growing at about the same rate as the rest of the world. They have a lot more people today because they had a lot more people a few hundred years ago, when the world began a period of modern and rapid population growth. 3 – It’s like comparing a big bank account and a small one: if they both grow at about the same rate over many years, the big one gains a lot more money, simply because it started with more. So the billion dollar (or billion person) question is: why did India and China have so many people when they started their rapid growth? 4 – We can’t know for sure since so many variables factor into long-term population dynamics. But the two most plausible explanations are food and area. Having lots of fertile land and good access to fresh water makes it possible to grow lots of food, which in turn makes it possible to nourish a lot of people. 5 – Even today the 10 most populated countries in the world all have a relatively large amount of farmland. And Asia — and in particular south and east Asia — has tons of farmland, lots of river valleys and the ability to grow food year round. Plus, domestication of plants and animals essentially started in Asia, giving populations an early “leg”—or “wing”—up.¹ 6 – As such, Asia’s been the most densely populated region of the world for a really long time. Area matters too. Countries like Pakistan and Bangladesh may be filled with farms and densely populated, but because they’re smaller in area than India and China they simply cannot contain as many people. Of course, a few other things happened in India and China in the last few thousand years. 7 – Some of them helped the populations grow and some of them shrank the populations. But through it all the large and fertile lands of India and China were able to sustain lots of people, such that when the era of modern population growth came around, they had a head start; or rather a hundred million head start. 8 – This video was sponsored by The University of Minnesota where students, faculty and staff across all fields of study are working to solve the grand challenges facing society. The Minnesota Population Center is helping demographic researchers explore past and current trends in world population. 9 – The Global Landscapes Initiative is working to figure out how to keep feeding the world’s growing population without harming the planet. And the IPUMS Terra Project integrates global population data with data on the environment to better understand how humans transform ecosystems and how ecosystems transform humans. Thanks, University of Minnesota.
